---
layout: post
title:  "Fall Roundup 2017"
subtitle: ""
image: /images/fallroundup2017/FallRoundup2017.jpg
spoilers: false
tags:
  - roundup
  - spoiler-free
---
There were a high number of great films this past fall! Out of the 14 films I watched, only two of them weren’t that good and another 3-4 that were just okay. Here is my ranking from best to worst:

## 1. Blade Runner 2049
I was very much looking forward to this film since it was announced that Denis Villeneuve would be directing it. It’s a stunningly beautiful movie, and has a rich story that builds off of the original.

## 2. The Shape of Water
I may just have to go ahead and say this is Guillermo del Toro’s best film. It has his signature look and feel, and tells a powerful story about love.

## 3. Star Wars: The Last Jedi
Such a great Star Wars film! This really cements us in the new trilogy. It shows how Star Wars can be a deep and compelling narrative and still maintain it’s fun, fantasy, space adventure feel. [Read the full review]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-01-16-the-last-jedi %}).

## 4. Coco
If you think Pixar has been a rut, let this film prove otherwise. This is easily their best film since *Inside Out*. It’s a wonderful story about a boy learning to appreciate his family and heritage, while also helping his family see past a long held bias.

## 5. Jumanji: Welcome to the Jungle
This movie is hilarious and is pure fun! While it’s related to the original, it has a very different feel. It’s much more a comedy/action-adventure than a drama/action-adventure like the first one is. The cast does a fantastic job keeping the movie funny and entertaining throughout the entire film.

## 6. Molly’s Game
If you like Aaron Sorkin’s work, then you will love this film. He takes us through an unbelievable true story, and from what I’ve seen/heard in interviews, he has stayed very close to the truth.

## 7. Thor: Ragnarok
The Thor train of fun and goofy aesthetic has reached it’s peak with this film, and I say that in the best way possible.

## 8. Lady Bird
A great coming of age story that is filled with touching character moments that I really enjoyed. [Read the full review]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-01-18-lady-bird %}).

## 9. The Disaster Artist
This movie is mostly just reenacted parts of the book it’s adapted from. However, I very much enjoyed each of the Francos’ performances. [Read the full review]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-01-14-the-disaster-artist %}).

## 10. Kingsman: The Golden Circle
This was as straight of a sequel as you could get. While I found many parts of it funny, it’s really the same movie as the first one just with a different conflict. I did find the parody of the war on drugs an entertaining and timely commentary though.

## 11. Justice League
This had a better story and was funnier than *Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice*. But it’s cinematography was not nearly as interesting. The Flash was my favorite character.

## 12. American Assassin
Another CIA film. If you like that genre then it’s enjoyable. It has a straightforward plot with nothing too interesting happening.

## 13. Murder on the Orient Express
I was not into this film. It’s a murder mystery where the reveal didn’t feel earned.

## 14. Bright
There were two parts to this film. The fantasy cop movie, which wasn’t half bad. And the social commentary on racism which was real bad.

---

Some films I missed that I wish were on this list:
- Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
- Downsizing
- Mother!
- Battle of the Sexes
- The Greatest Showman
- Mudbound
- Darkest Hour
- Only the Brave
