---
layout: post
title:  "Oscars 2020"
subtitle: "My personal picks for the year."
image: /images/oscars2020/Oscars2020.jpg
spoilers: false
tags:
  - oscars
  - academy-awards
  - spoiler-free
---
Here are my picks for three of this year’s Academy Awards! These are not my predictions for who will win, but rather who I would vote for. And for full transparency I list every film I saw, and missed, within each category.

## Best Picture: *Parasite*

{% include image_thumb.html url="/images/oscars2020/Parasite.jpg" alt="Parasite" credit="IMDb" classes="is-portrait float-l" %}

*Parasite* takes the cake for me! I think this film is wonderfully crafted all the way through. And I think in the case of this movie, there is a sentiment about class, wealth, and capitalism that speaks so well to so many people. There is a reason this movie, centered within South Korea, resonates so well with the culture in the U.S.

<div class="clearfix"></div>

| Films watched | Films missed |
| --------------| ------------ |
| Jojo Rabbit | Ford v Ferrari |
| Joker | The Irishman |
| Marriage Story | Little Women |
| 1917 | Once Upon a Time in Hollywood |
| Parasite | |

---

## Directing: *1917*

{% include image_thumb.html url="/images/oscars2020/1917.jpg" alt="1917" credit="IMDb" classes="is-portrait float-r" %}

While I believe Bong Joon Ho is certainly deserving of this award, I am just in awe of the spectacle that is *1917*. Sam Mendes did such a great job creating this faux single shot war epic, where we follow a couple of protagonists through a rollercoaster, borderline suicide mission.

<div class="clearfix"></div>

| Films watched | Films missed |
| --------------| ------------ |
| Joker | The Irishman |
| 1917 | Once Upon a Time in Hollywood |
| Parasite | |

---

## Writing (Original Screenplay): *Knives Out*

{% include image_thumb.html url="/images/oscars2020/KnivesOut.jpg" alt="Knives Out" credit="IMDb" classes="is-portrait float-l" %}

Creating an ensemble comedy murder mystery script requires keeping a lot of moving pieces in sync, and creating a ton of dialogue. Rian Johnson wrote such a fun and engaging film, and all the characters add to the story and the mystery.

| Films watched | Films missed |
| --------------| ------------ |
| Knives Out (Rian Johnson) | Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (Quentin Tarantino) |
| Marriage Story (Noah Baumbach) | |
| 1917 (Sam Mendes & Krysty Wilson-Cairns) | |
| Parasite (Bong Joon Ho, Han Jin Won) | |
